# PLMarkdown

## Introduction
PLMarkdown is a PL/SQL Object Type to create simple Markdown text and/or file.
For more information on Markdown see [http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/)

## Installation
Simply run the install script from the setup folder inside SQL*Plus.

## Usage
First of all you have to declare and initialize a variable. In the block below, you declare object l_md
  of type PLMarkdown. Then, you call the constructor for object type PLMarkdown to initialize the object. The call
  assign the values TRUE and TRUE to the attributes **prn** and **toc** inside the object. With **prn** you can set if you want
  to read your input to the object in DBMS_OUTPUT (default is FALSE). With toc you set whether a table of content at
  the beginning of the document is generated from all headers (default is FALSE).

    DECLARE
       l_md PLMarkdown;
    BEGIN
       l_md := PLMarkdown(TRUE, TRUE);
       ...


### PLMarkdown procedures/functions
* `p(p_val VARCHAR2)`<br>A normal paragraph. You can write inside the paragraph a specific markup like `**` for **bold**,
  `*` for *italic* or `[link](https://github.com/)` for a [link](https://github.com/) as well as valid html code like `<hr>`.
* `h1(p_val VARCHAR2)`, `h2(p_val VARCHAR2)`, `h3(p_val VARCHAR2)`, `h4(p_val VARCHAR2)`, `h5(p_val VARCHAR2)` and `h6(p_val VARCHAR2)`<br>A header text.
* `b(p_val VARCHAR2)`<br>A blockquote.
* `ul(p_val VARCHAR2, p_idx SIMPLE_INTEGER DEFAULT 1)`<br>An unordered list.
* `ol(p_val VARCHAR2, p_idx SIMPLE_INTEGER DEFAULT 1)`<br>An ordered list.
* `img(p_lnk VARCHAR2, p_val VARCHAR2 DEFAULT NULL)`<br>An image, the title on mouseover is optional.
* `c(p_val VARCHAR2)`<br>A code block.

### Special procedures/functions
* `lorem(p_words SIMPLE_INTEGER)`<br>Adds a specific number of  words (max 149) from the lorem ipsum text.
* `get RETURN CLOB`<br>Returns all content from the object.
* `save(p_loc VARCHAR2, p_file VARCHAR2)`<br>Writes the content to a filename in a specified location.
* `sql2table(p_sql_statement VARCHAR2, p_null_display VARCHAR2 DEFAULT '--', p_date_format VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'dd.mm.yyyy', p_number_format VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'FM9G999G999G999G990D00')`<br>Convert a sql statement to a table.
* `sql2chart(p_sql_statement VARCHAR2, p_chart_type VARCHAR2, p_show_legend BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE, p_image_type VARCHAR2 DEFAULT 'png')`<br>Convert a sql statement to a chart.
**Notes:** Valid chart types are 'pie', 'bar', 'line' and 'area', valid image types 'png' and 'svg'. For more information see [plmarkdown_hr_schema.md](https://github.com/teotiger/plmarkdown/blob/master/demo/plmarkdown_hr_schema.md) in the demo section or visit the website from [chartspree.io](http://chartspree.io).

## HTML Output
The markdown generated by PLMarkdown can be converted using a PL/SQL packge from [here](https://github.com/nvanbaren/Markdown-plsql).

## License
PLMarkdown is released under the [MIT license](https://github.com/teotiger/plmarkdown/blob/master/license.txt).

## Version History
Version 1.3 - July 7, 2016
* sql2chart added

Version 1.2 - June 13, 2016
* Small functional enhancements

Version 1.1 - March 8, 2016
* sql2table added

Version 1.0 - February 10, 2016
* Initial release
